# **Krom**
## The image processing language


### Syntax

    The **Krom** programming language has a syntax strongly influenced on
functional programming languages such as _Scheme_ and _Racket_. The code is
structured as a tree of sentences, one sentence being able to contain
other sentences.
    All sentences have a predicate which dictates the kind
of processing the sentence will execute. Depending of process, the sentence
can have one ore more subjects (usually images) and parameters.
    Parameters represent the powerhouse of the language, providing virtually
unlimited customization to the limited number of actions. Some parameters
encapsulate templates for the process they are defining, while others provide
important numerical values. Most of the parameters are optional, as their
absence will be replaced by default values.


### Runtime

    Krom language is more of a feature of the bigger system, **Kromatique**. The
system comes with an interpreter that can parse Krom source code files and
dynamically create an interpreter tree at runtime. Loading files and input
parameters into the tree it's a simple matter.


### Source code

    Krom code is writen into plain text files having file extension _.krom_,
which have to be parsed at runtime by the _Kromatique interpreter_.
    While in parsing phase, the sentences will be evaluated in depth, from the
higher levels to the lower ones. In this phase, all syntax errors are reported.
After the parsing is complete, the interpretation takes place.
    Between the two phases, any sentence that requires keyboard input will ask
the user for it. The input can also be directed from a file.
    The interpretation phase imply solving the interpreter tree from the lower
levels to the upper ones. In this phase, predicates call their respective
image processing functions from the _Kromatique library_.


### Example

    This line will call the Kromatique interpreter to run the code:
        `kromatique old_style.krom`

    This line will be intepreted as such: apply filter generated by the
`(gen_f grayscale)` sentence with default parameters to the image loaded with
`(load image.jpg)` sentence from the address _./image.jpg_. The output file
will have the default name of _image_krom.jpg_.
        `filter (load image.jpg) (gen_f grayscale)`
